#summary Documentation for Checkbox custom fields
#labels Custom-Fields
#sidebar SidebarCustomFields

== Overview ==

|| http://s8.postimage.org/fglxaasn5/checkbox.png || Custom checkbox fields are meant to store one of two values; the implementation here differs slightly from the standard HTML checkbox where a value is either present, or the variable is absent altogether.||

----

== Field Definition (Meta Data)==

The field definition affects how instances of this field type will display in the !WordPress manager while creating or posts that contain instances of this field type.

 * *label* : the label identifies this field when you create or edit a post in the !WordPress manager
 * *name* : the name is a unique identifier used when saving values for instances of this field; it corresponds to the *meta_key* column *wp_postmeta* table.  You will use this name when retrieving field values inside of your themes via the `print_custom_field()` or `get_custom_field()` functions.
 * *description* : the description provides extra information to users as they create or edit a post in the !WordPress manager.
 * *class* : this affects the CSS class in the !WordPress manager that is used to display instances of this field type.
 * *extra* : this can be used to provide additional parameters to the text input, e.g. custom javascript.. 
 * *checked_by_default* : 1 | 0 representing whether or not this field will be checked by default when a new post is created in the !WordPress manager.  If you change the either the _checked_value_ or _unchecked_value_, you should update this value so it reflects one of the two options.
 * *checked_value*: The value stored in the database when a field instance is checked.
 * *unchecked_value*: The value stored in the database when a field instance is unchecked.

----

== Included Javascript/CSS files ==

NONE: _Checkbox fields do not include external files._

----

== Example of Use  in Template File ==

In the case of a checkbox field with no output filter, `print_custom_field('fieldname');` will return exactly the string that was was entered in the !WordPress manager and stored in the database.  The output is identical to 

{{{
<?php
print_custom_field('my_checkbox'); 
?>
}}}

=== Recommended Output Filters ===

 * [default_OutputFilter default]
 * [wrapper_OutputFilter wrapper]


----

== Customizing Manager HTML ==

Checkbox fields use the 2 standard tpls: field and wrapper.  See [CustomizingManagerHTML] for more information.

==== Field tpl====

The first of following tpls found will be used to format the field:

 * fields/elements/{fieldname}.tpl
 * fields/elements/_checkbox.tpl
 * fields/elements/_default.tpl'

==== Wrapper tpl ====

The first of the following tpls found will be used to wrap the output:

 * fields/wrappers/{fieldname}.tpl
 * fields/wrappers/_checkbox.tpl
 * fields/wrappers/_default.tpl


Checkbox fields do not have a "repeatable" option, so there is not a separate set of "multi" tpls.