#summary Color-selector fields allow users to select an HTML color code using a visual selector
#labels Custom-Fields
#sidebar SidebarCustomFields

||http://s9.postimage.org/la64smtfv/colorselector.png ||Color-selector text fields use a bit of !JavaScript to allow users to pick a color visually ([http://blog.meta100.com/post/600571131/mcolorpicker mColorPicker]).||

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

----

== Field Definition (Meta Data)==

The field definition affects how instances of this field type will display in the !WordPress manager while creating or posts that contain instances of this field type.

 * *label* : the label identifies this field when you create or edit a post in the !WordPress manager
 * *name* : the name is a unique identifier used when saving values for instances of this field; it corresponds to the *meta_key* column *wp_postmeta* table.  You will use this name when retrieving field values inside of your themes via the `print_custom_field()` or `get_custom_field()` functions.
 * *description* : the description provides extra information to users as they create or edit a post in the !WordPress manager.
 * *class* : this affects the CSS class in the !WordPress manager that is used to display instances of this field type.
 * *extra* : this can be used to provide additional parameters to the text input, e.g. `size="10"` or custom javascript.. 
 * *default_value* : This is used to determine the default value for new instances of this field type. 

----

== Included Javascript/CSS files ==

 * `/js/mColorPicker.js`  (Requires jquery-ui-core) 

----

== Example of Use  in Template File ==

Usually, you would use a color-selector field to print a value into some HTML element that would actually make use of the color information.

{{{
<div style="background-color: <?php print_custom_field('my_colorselector'); ?>;">... </div>
}}}

=== Recommended Output Filters ===

 * [to_array_OutputFilter to_array] (if you have "repeatable" checked).


----

== Customizing Manager HTML ==

Colorselector fields use the 2 standard tpls: field and wrapper.  See [CustomizingManagerHTML] for more information.

==== Field tpl====

The first of following tpls found will be used to format the field:

 * fields/elements/{fieldname}.tpl
 * fields/elements/_colorselector.tpl
 * fields/elements/_default.tpl'

==== Wrapper tpl ====

The first of the following tpls found will be used to wrap the output:

 * fields/wrappers/{fieldname}.tpl
 * fields/wrappers/_colorselector.tpl
 * fields/wrappers/_default.tpl

=== Multi ===

Colorselector fields can be repeatable.  If the "repeatable" option is checked, the following tpls are used to format the output:


==== Field tpl====

The first of following tpls found will be used to format the field:

 * fields/elements/{fieldname}.tpl
 * fields/elements/_colorselector_multi.tpl

==== Wrapper tpl ====

The first of the following tpls found will be used to wrap the output:

 * fields/wrappers/{fieldname}.tpl
 * fields/wrappers/_colorselector_multi.tpl