#summary Customizations available to the CCTM
#labels Customizations
#sidebar SidebarCustomizations

= Introduction =

The CCTM was designed to be flexible and extendible, so there are points in its architecture designed with customizations in mind.   The dominant practice here is that the CCTM will look for your customizations in the *wp-content/uploads/cctm* for a given file, and if found, that file will be used (this is the same idea as using a child them to extend/override a parent theme).  If a file is not found, the CCTM will fall-back to the included file inside of *wp-content/plugins/custom-content-type-manager*: it's a simple setup and it allows for dedicated users to customize their site in the way they need.


== Configuration Files ==

These are PHP files, usually containing simple variable or array values.  

 * [Config_admin_menu menus/admin_menu.php]: contains code that generates the main CCTM menu. 
 * `post_selector/_image.php`: settings
 * [Config_post_selector_media post_selector/_media.php]: settings for the "Choose Media" buttons on your posts/pages.
 * [Config_post_selector_relation post_selector/_relation.php]: settings for the "Choose Relation" buttons on your posts/pages.
 * [Config_post_selector_widget post_selector/_post_content_widget.php]: settings for the "Post Content" widget.
 * `search_parameters/_image.php`:
 * `search_parameters/_media.php`:
 * `search_parameters/_relation.php`:
 * `search_parameters/_summarize_posts.php`: controls the form that pops when you click the SummarizePosts TinyMCE button

== Template Files (.tpl) ==

You can also customize a lot of the HTML used in the manager pages. See [CustomizingManagerHTML Customizing the Manager].