#summary do_shortcode Output Filter
#labels Output-Filters
#sidebar SidebarOutputFilters

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Description =

The *do_shortcode* filter is the default output filter for [WYSIWYG] fields -- it is essentially a wrapper for the !WordPress function of the same name (see [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/do_shortcode do_shortcode]).  This output filter forces any !WordPress [http://codex.wordpress.org/Shortcode shortcodes] to be parsed as they would in the normal post content block.

= Usage =

Generic invocation of any Output Filter occurs via the [TemplateFunctions#get_custom_field get_custom_field()] function:

_mixed_ *get_custom_field*( string _$fieldname_ `[`, mixed _$options_ `]` ) 

 * *$fieldname*: _string_ the unique name for your field
 * *$options*: _boolean_.  Set to true to override the wpautop() behavior. 
 * *OUTPUT*: _string_. The contents of your field. Any shortcodes in the input will be parsed in the output.

== Example 1==

If you don't parse shortcodes in your custom WYSIWYG fields, they won't be parsed.   For example, if your WYSIWYG content contains a shortcode, e.g. 

{{{
[gallery id="123" size="medium"]
}}}

Then you must parse that shortcode
{{{
<?php
print_custom_field('my_wysiwyg:do_shortcode');
?>
}}}

== Example 2==

If you don't want to use this Output Filter, you can instead use !WordPress's function:

{{{
<?php
print do_shortcode( get_custom_field('my_wysiwyg') );
?>
}}}

See !WordPress' documentation for its [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/do_shortcode do_shortcode] function. 

= See Also =

 * [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/do_shortcode do_shortcode] !WordPress function reference.