#summary get_post Output Filter
#labels Output-Filters
#sidebar SidebarOutputFilters

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Description =

The _get_post_ filter returns an associative array for the entire post when given the post ID.

= Usage =

Generic invocation of any Output Filter occurs via the [TemplateFunctions#get_custom_field get_custom_field()] function:

_mixed_ *get_custom_field*( string _$input_ `[`, mixed _$options_ `]` ) 

 * *$input*: _string_.  
 * *$options*: _none_.
 * *OUTPUT*: _array_.  An associative array representing the post and all of its custom fields.

== Example 1==

{{{
<?php 

$post = get_custom_field('my_relation:get_post'); 
print $post['post_title'];
print $post['my_custom_field'];
?>
}}}

== Example 2==

You can use this on a "repeatable" multi-relation field to get custom-field and other data from the related posts.

{{{
<?php 

$posts_array = get_custom_field('my_relation:to_array', 'get_post'); 
foreach ($posts_array as $p) {
   printf('<a href="%s">%s</a>: %s', $p['guid'], $p['post_title'], $p['my_custom_field']);
}
?>
}}}

== Example 3==

A more explicit variation on Example 2 above, used to get full post data from the related posts.  Note here the use of !WordPress' [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/get_permalink get_permalink()] function to convert the post ID into the URL of the post (using the post's guid should have the exact same effect):

{{{
<?php 

$posts_array = get_custom_field('my_relation:to_array'); 
foreach ($posts_array as $post_id) {
   $post = CCTM::filter($post_id, 'get_post');
   printf('<a href="%s">%s</a>: %s', get_permalink($post['ID']), $post['post_title'], $post['my_custom_field']);
}
?>
}}}

== Example 4 ==

You can use the get_post filter standalone too -- this is useful if you need to convert a post ID into that post's attributes.

{{{
<?php
$my_post = CCTM::filter( 123, 'get_post',
print $my_post['guid'];
print $my_post['some_custom_field'];
// print_r($my_post); // <-- this will show you which fields are available
?>
}}}
= See Also =