#summary Import Custom Content Type definitions
#labels Help

Starting with version 0.8.9, you can Import and [Export] your content type definitions. 

= Information and Warning =

Importing a definition can quickly and easily include multiple content types and custom fields on your site, so it can give you a great head start for rolling out a new site.  It basically provides a template for all aspects of your site.  A definition provides your site with everything but _content_.

It will also completely overwrite any existing definitions you may have created inside the Custom Content Type Manager!  Make sure you [Export] your current definition before importing a new one if you think you might need to restore any of your existing definition data.

|| http://s2.postimage.org/by3ngezo/warning_icon.png || Importing a new definition  will overwrite the active definition! [Export] a backup first! || 

== What's In a CCTM Definition? ==

A CCTM definition file contains a lot of information, including:

 * All custom field definitions for the built-in post and page post-types
 * Custom content type definitions (e.g. books, movies, products)
 * All permalink preferences for custom content types
 * All custom field definitions for the custom content types
 * All menu preferences and labels

A CCTM definition contains _no post content of any kind_.


= Import from File =

CCTM definition files are stored as plain text JSON files, and they use the `.cctm.json` extension.

Click the "Custom Content Type" --> "Import" menu item in the !WordPress manager, then click the "Upload" button.

The selected file must be a compatible `.cctm.json` file that was produced via the [Export] feature. 