#summary The CCTM Parser and its placeholder syntax
#labels Function-Reference
#sidebar SidebarFunctionReference

The CCTM relies on string parsing to do automated find-and-replace operations on formatting strings.  It converts strings such as

{{{
Hello [+first_name+], we have confirmed your trip to [+city+] on [+date+].
}}}

to something like

{{{
Hello Steve, we have confirmed your trip to New York on March 17, 2013.
}}}


= Placeholders =

==Simple Placeholders==

Basic placeholders begin with a `[+` and end with a `+]`, e.g. `[+post_title+]`.  Starting in version 0.9.6.1 of the CCTM, complex placeholders were supported due to enhancements in the parser functionality.  [OutputFilters Output Filters] can referenced in the placeholders, and the syntax is similar to what is supported by the [get_custom_field get_custom_field()] and [print_custom_field print_custom_field()] functions.


=== Sample Placeholders ===

The most basic examples match a placeholder to a named key (e.g. the name of a custom field):

{{{
[+first_name+]
}}}


Starting with version 0.9.6.1 of the CCTM, you can use advanced placeholders in your formatting tpls in the following syntax:

{{{
[+placeholder_name:outputfilter==option1||option2+]
}}}

This is useful when the raw value is not in a format that is useful, e.g. when a relation field stores a reference to a post ID, or an image to an attachment id:

{{{
[+my_image_id:to_image_tag+]
}}}

{{{
[+related_post:to_link+]
}}}

=== Nested Tags ===

Sometimes you need to supply placeholders as arguments to output filters.  Because the CCTM Parser is _not_ iterative, we use different glyphs to represent these "2nd level" placeholders.

{{{
[+related_post:get_post==My post title is {{post_title}}+]
}}}


-----

= Function =

The parsing behavior is implemented by the `CCTM::parse` function.

_string_ parse(string _$tpl_, array _$hash_ `[`, boolean _$preserve_unused_placeholders_`]`)

 * *$tpl* the formatting string containing `[+placeholders+]`
 * *$hash* an array of key/value pairs, with the key names corresponding to the placeholder names
 * *$preserve_unused_placeholders* optional boolean that controls whether the output string removes or preserves any unused placeholders.  Default: false (all placeholders are removed).

== Example ==

{{{
$tpl = 'Hello [+first_name+], we have confirmed your trip to [+city+] on [+date+].';
$hash = array(
    'first_name' => 'Steve',
    'city' => 'New York',
    'date' => '2013-03-17'
);
print CCTM::parse($tpl, $hash);

// prints :
// Hello Steve, we have confirmed your trip to New York on 2013-03-17.
}}}

-----

= Limitations =

Although placeholders go a long way in keeping your view and logic layers separated, they are not a perfect solution.  If any output filter returns an array, the parser won't know what to do with that value: your results may be unpredictable.  In general, if you're getting this deep into the Parser behavior, you should consider using PHP as an alternative.

*Advantages*

 * Formatting strings are easily cached.
 * They cannot crash or be hacked.
 * Since they are static strings with only limited "windows" into dynamic functionality, they are far less likely to devolve into spaghetti.

*Disadvantages*

 * They are not PHP
 * They return raw values: any manipulation of the values must occur via an Output Filter
 * They use their own custom syntax