#summary Notes on different versions of this plugin

= 0.8.9 =

 * Permalink functionality fixed by flushing rewrite rules after register_post_type()
 * Flash messages are now stored in the $_COOKIE array instead of $_SESSION to be in keeping with WordPress' simplistic "stateless" parlance.
 * Date field added, including support for PHP eval of default value.
 * CSS classes and ids updated (all instances of "formgenerator" were replaced with "cctm").
 * Import/Export functionality added.
 * Checking of valid image icons was disabled due to problems with segfault in some server configurations [http://code.google.com/p/wordpress-custom-content-type-manager/issues/detail?id=60 see Issue 60] 
 * Default values for dropdowns now settable via Javascript to reduce typos
 * Bug with page-attributes fixed: you can now correctly enable page attributes for custom content types.
 * Support for Post Formats added.
 * Support for [OutputFilters Output Filters] was added.
 * Template functions `get_custom_image()` and `print_custom_image` were removed in favor of using Output Filters.
 * The FormGenerator class removed in favor of simpler PHP pages.

= 0.8.8 =

 * More CRUD-like interface for creating and editing custom fields one at a time.
 * Object-Oriented class structure implemented for custom fields in accordance with future plans for more field types
 * Drag and Drop interface added for Custom Fields to change sort order
 * Added support for built-in taxonomies (Categories and Tags).
 * Fixed unreported bugs affecting custom tpls. 
 * Fixed bug causing popup thickbox to load incorrectly: [http://code.google.com/p/wordpress-custom-content-type-manager/issues/detail?id=17&can=1 Issue 17]
 * Styling for the manager updated to match what's used by WordPress 3.1.
 * Greatly improved administration interface including support for icons and a series of tabs for dividing the multi-part form for creating/editing content types.
 * Reduced MySQL requirements to version 4.1.2 (same as WordPress 3.1) after feedback that the plugin is working fine in MySQL 4: [http://code.google.com/p/wordpress-custom-content-type-manager/issues/detail?id=28&can=1 issue 28]
 * Fixed typos in CCTMTests.php re the CCTM_TXTDOMAIN: [http://code.google.com/p/wordpress-custom-content-type-manager/issues/detail?id=29&can=1 issue 29].
 * Added optional prefix for template *function get_all_fields_of_type()*: [http://code.google.com/p/wordpress-custom-content-type-manager/issues/detail?id=26&can=1 Issue 26]
 * Three new template functions added per [http://code.google.com/p/wordpress-custom-content-type-manager/issues/detail?id=25&can=1 Issue 25]
 ** *get_custom_field_meta()*
 ** *print_custom_field_meta()*
 ** *get_custom_field_def()*
See [TemplateFunctions Template Functions] in the wiki.


= 0.8.7 (bad release: Jacked by WP repo) =
 * Adds HTML head and body tags back to the tpls/post_selector/main.tpl to correct [http://code.google.com/p/wordpress-custom-content-type-manager/issues/detail?id=17&can=1 issue 17].

= 0.8.6 =
 * Fixes bad CSS declaration: [http://code.google.com/p/wordpress-custom-content-type-manager/issues/detail?id=1 issue 1]
 * Fixed omission in sample template placeholders.

= 0.8.5 =
 * Resubmitting to placate WP's repository.

= 0.8.4 =

 * Resubmitting to placate WP's repository.

= 0.8.3 =

 * Customized manager templates. This is useful if you need to customize the manager interface for the custom fields.
 * Updated sample templates under the "View Sample Template" link for each content type.
 * Added image/media uploading functionality directly from the custom fields.
 * Fixed glitch in Javascript element counter that screwed up dropdown menu creation: due to this bug, you could only add a dropbox to the first element because the wrapper div's id was fixed statically as the same id, so adding a dropdown menu always wrote the new HTML to that same div (inside the first custom field).
 * Control buttons now at top and bottom of manage custom fields.
 * Links to bug tracking / wiki for this project.
 * Some basic HTML cleanup.
 * Moved some files around for better organization.

=0.8.2=
 * WordPress 3.0.4 fixed some bugs that affected the functionality of this plugin: now you CAN add custom content posts to WordPress menus.
 * WordPress has not recognized the updates to this plugin (apparently due to a glitch), so currently the only way to get the most recent version of this is to check it out via SVN.

= 0.8.1 =
 * Fixes problem saving posts. The problem had to do with wp-nonces and the admin referrer was being checked, but not generated, so the check failed. Oops.

= 0.8.0 =
 * Initial public release. 