#summary Links to similar plugins

Here is my list of bookmarks to plugins that offer similar functionality to the Custom Content Type Manager.

= Advanced Custom Fields =

 * http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/advanced-custom-fields/
 * http://www.advancedcustomfields.com/

= WP Types & Views =
"Types and Views let you create complex WordPress websites without touching PHP"

 * http://wp-types.com/
 * http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/types/

The biggest disadvantage here is that this is a *paid* plugin.

= More-Types =

Nice clean interface, but this doesn't deal with the standardized custom fields or output filters or importing/exporting etc.  It's a nice clean implementation of the basic post-type functionality.

 * http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/more-types/

= Suffusion Theme =

Shockingly, this theme has embarked on the dangerous architectural path and it has incorporated PLUGIN functionality.  This theme lets you define both custom post-types and custom taxonomies in a frightening display of !WordPress' blurry architecture:

 * http://wordpress.org/extend/themes/suffusion

= PodsCMS=

This some of the same functionality, but it takes a very different architectural approach: it gives each content-type its own table.  That has several distinct advantages, but it also means you depart significantly from the WordPress core, so I would expect that many plugins are not compatible with this.  It makes certain queries very easy, and it makes others very difficult.

 * http://podscms.org/

= Magic Fields =

Magic Fields is a popular !WordPress CMS plugin:

 * http://magicfields.org/

It throws a few un-caught errors and warnings, and it has reinvented the wheel for image uploading -- that makes for a quicker image upload, but it also means that you become tied to the plugin because !WordPress knows nothing of the images that this plugin has uploaded.  This is a limited approach because you can't associate meta data with any uploaded image.


This plugin does offer 2 nice features: you can mark fields as required, and you can mark any field as repeatable, so it's a good way to add multiple instances of any field to your post types.


=Verve Meta Boxes= 

A robust, intuitive, polished custom fields plugin provides text, textarea, image, file, date, time, datetime, select, radio, and checkbox fields.

 * http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/verve-meta-boxes/

= pType Converter =

 * http://www.briandgoad.com/downloads/ptypeconverter/

= Custom Post Type UI =

http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/custom-post-type-ui/

The Custom-Post Type UI plugin offers some of the same features, but I felt that its architecture was flawed: it stores data as taxonomical terms, which is conceptually awkward at a development level, and more importantly, it limits the each custom field to 200 characters of data, making it impossible to store certain types of custom content (e.g. long text fields).

= CMS Press =

 * http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/cms-press/

CMS Press offers a simple and clean implementation of custom post types.  It does include a taxonomy manager.  However, this plugin does NOT offer the ability to standardize custom fields for each post type.

= Easy Custom Fields =

This is a set of extendable classes to allow easy handling of custom post fields.

 * http://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/easy-custom-fields/


= Custom Content Types =

 * Compatible up to: 3.0.5
 * 8Last Updated: 2010-7-31

 * https://wordpress.org/extend/plugins/custom-content-types/

= Custom Post Type Helper Class =

Some PHP classes for programmers.

 * http://wp.tutsplus.com/tutorials/creative-coding/custom-post-type-helper-class/

= Others =

This company makes some nice plugins:

 * http://www.marcocimmino.net/cimy-wordpress-plugins/
 
= eCommerce Plugins =

 * http://www.instinct.co.nz/e-commerce/ (notoriously buggy)
 * http://www.tipsandtricks-hq.com/ecommerce/
 * http://quirm.net/eshop-2/