#summary SP_Post class reference
#labels Function-Reference,Technical
#sidebar SidebarFunctionReference

The *SP_Post* class offers functions to create, update, and delete your posts and their meta data (i.e. CRUD).  Managing your post and all related data via a single interface is simpler than the alternative of using iterations of the !WordPress [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/wp_insert_post wp_insert_post()] and [http://codex.wordpress.org/Function_Reference/update_post_meta update_post_meta()] and related functions.  

Using *SP_Posts* has these important distinctions:

 # It does not call any actions or filters when it is executed, so for better or for worse, there is no way for 3rd parties to intervene with this.
 # It automatically creates/updates/deletes all custom fields in the postmeta table without the need to have to use the update_post_meta() and related functions.
 # It does not check for user permissions. If you're running around in the PHP code, you have full run of the database. BEWARE!

--------------------------
= Methods =
--------------------------
== get ==

_array_ *get_custom_field*( array _$args_) 

* `$args` array arguments.

This is a convenience function that acts as a pass-thru to [GetPostsQuery]'s *get_posts()* function.

---------------------------

== get_errors ==

_string_ *get_errors*( ) 

* _no arguments_

This is a convenience function for aiding in debugging: call it to return a list of errors (formatted with HTML).

{{{
$SP = new SP_Post();
// do something.. maybe generate errors...

print $SP->get_errors();
}}}

---------------------------

== delete ==

_void_ *delete*( integer _$post_id_ ) 

* `$post_id` : the id of the post you want to delete

This deletes a post, its revisions, and its custom fields from the database.

{{{
// Delete post 123 from the database
$SP = new SP_Post();
$SP->delete(123);
}}}

---------------------------

== insert ==

_integer_ *insert*( array _$args_ ) 

 * `$args` an associative array representing all values for the post you are creating.
 
This inserts a post into the database.  Data is written into both the `wp_posts` table and the `wp_postmeta` tables.  Any array keys which do not correspond to columns in the `wp_posts` table will be considered custom fields (see the list of built-in columns at the bottom of the page).

The post ID of the newly created post is returned on success.

=== Example 1===

{{{
$SP = new SP_Post();
$data = array();
$data['post_title'] = 'My Great Post';
$data['post_content'] = '<p>A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away...</p>';
$data['post_date'] = date('Y-m-d H:i:s');
$data['post_status'] = 'publish';
$data['post_type'] = 'post';  // or page, or custom_post_type
// Custom Fields
$data['rating'] = 'PG';
$data['language'] = 'English';

$post_id =  $SP->insert($data);

print "Created post $post_id";
}}}

---------------------------

== save ==

This switches between the insert/update functions based on whether or not the 'ID' key is present in the input arguments.  See the related functions for info.

---------------------------

== update ==

_integer_ *insert*( array _$args_ `[`, boolean _$overwrite_ `]` ) 

 * `$args` are identical to arguments for the `insert` function, but they *must* include a key for `ID` (the post ID).
 * `$overwrite` (optional) If true, update will nuke any custom fields not included in `$args`.

This method updates an existing post.  Set the `$overwrite` parameter to true if you want to ensure that no residual custom fields persist across updates.

=== Example 1 ===

{{{
$Q = new GetPostsQuery();
$SP = new SP_Post();

// retrieve post 123
$my_post = $Q->get_post(123); 

$my_post['post_content'] = 'I changed the content!';
$my_post['my_custom_field'] = 'I changed/added a custom field!';

// Since we retrieved the post, $my_post['ID'] is already set
$SP->update($my_post);
}}}

=== Example 2 ===

{{{
$SP = new SP_Post();
$data = array();
$data['ID'] = 456;
$data['post_title'] = 'Updated Title';
$SP->update($data);
}}}


----------------

= Built in Columns =

Columns from the `wp_posts` table.

 * ID
 * post_author
 * post_date
 * post_date_gmt
 * post_content
 * post_title
 * post_excerpt
 * post_status
 * comment_status
 * ping_status
 * post_password
 * post_name
 * to_ping
 * pinged
 * post_modified
 * post_modified_gmt
 * post_content_filtered
 * post_parent
 * guid
 * menu_order
 * post_type
 * post_mime_type
 * comment_count