#summary Documentation for Text custom fields
#labels Custom-Fields
#sidebar SidebarCustomFields


||http://s12.postimage.org/o4dbpbx2x/text.png||Custom text fields are the simplest type of custom fields.  They are meant to store arbitrary strings of data, usually no more than a few characters in length.||

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

----

== Field Definition (Meta Data)==

The field definition affects how instances of this field type will display in the !WordPress manager while creating or posts that contain instances of this field type.

 * *label* : the label identifies this field when you create or edit a post in the !WordPress manager
 * *name* : the name is a unique identifier used when saving values for instances of this field; it corresponds to the *meta_key* column *wp_postmeta* table.  You will use this name when retrieving field values inside of your themes via the `print_custom_field()` or `get_custom_field()` functions.
 * *description* : the description provides extra information to users as they create or edit a post in the !WordPress manager.
 * *class* : this affects the CSS class in the !WordPress manager that is used to display instances of this field type.
 * *extra* : this can be used to provide additional parameters to the text input, e.g. `size="10"` or custom javascript.. 
 * *default_value* : This is used to determine the default value for new instances of this field type. 
 * *output_filter* : [OutputFilters Output Filters] control how data is filtered before being sent to your theme files.

----

== Included Javascript/CSS files ==

 * `/js/mColorPicker.js`  (Requires jquery-ui-core) 

----

== Example of Use  in Template File ==

Text fields are the most basic type of field

=== Example 1 ===

{{{
<?php print_custom_field('my_text'); ?>
}}}

=== Example 2: Array ===

Will join all the instances of your text fields if you're using "repeatable" field.

{{{
<?php print_custom_field('my_text:formatted_list', ','); ?>
}}}



=== Recommended Output Filters ===

 * [to_array_OutputFilter to_array] (if you have "repeatable" checked).
 * [email_OutputFilter email] to encode strings 


----

== Customizing Manager HTML ==

Colorselector fields use the 2 standard tpls: field and wrapper.  See [CustomizingManagerHTML] for more information.

==== Field tpl====

The first of following tpls found will be used to format the field:

 * `fields/elements/{fieldname}.tpl`
 * `fields/elements/_colorselector.tpl`
 * `fields/elements/_default.tpl`

==== Wrapper tpl ====

The first of the following tpls found will be used to wrap the output:

 # `fields/wrappers/{fieldname}.tpl`
 # `fields/wrappers/_text.tpl`
 # `fields/wrappers/_default.tpl`

=== Multi ===

Text fields can be repeatable.  If the "repeatable" option is checked, the following tpls are used to format the output:


==== Field tpl====

The first of following tpls found will be used to format the field:

 # `fields/elements/{fieldname}.tpl`
 # `fields/elements/_text_multi.tpl`

==== Wrapper tpl ====

The first of the following tpls found will be used to wrap the output:

 # `fields/wrappers/{fieldname}.tpl`
 # `fields/wrappers/_text_multi.tpl`