#summary to_link Output Filter
#labels Output-Filters,Function-Reference
#sidebar SidebarOutputFilters

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Description =

The *to_link* converts a post ID to a full anchor tag (a link).  <font color="red">Do not use this filter on URLs! It operates on integers only!</font>


= Usage =

Generic invocation of any Output Filter occurs via the [TemplateFunctions#get_custom_field get_custom_field()] function:

_mixed_ *get_custom_field*( string _$input_ `[`, mixed _$options_ `]` ) 

 * *$input*: _string_.  an integer post ID
 * *$options*: _string_. (optional) The "click me" text. The default value is the post's title.
 * *OUTPUT*: _string_. The URL for the referenced post.

= Options =

You can optionally specify the "click me" text for the link.


= Examples =

== Example 1==

Gets a full anchor tag to the referenced post.

{{{
<?php
print_custom_field('my_relation:to_link','Read more...'); 
// Prints out something like:
// <a href="http://yoursite.com/some/post/">Read more...</a>
?>
}}}

== Example 2 ==

Just to demonstrate that this filter operates solely on integers, here's an example of how you could call this filter on a raw value using the [CCTM_filter CCTM::filter()] function.  Assume that you want to print a link to post ID 42:

{{{
<?php
print CCTM::filter(42,'to_link');
// prints out something like <a href="http://yoursite.com/your-post/" title="Your Post">Your Post</a>
?>
}}}

== Example 2 (missing posts) ==

If you are trying to link to a post that has been deleted, an error message will be returned.  This might also occur if you have migrated sites and your custom field is pointing to a post that does not exist in the new database.

*Error Message:* <font color="red">Referenced post not found.</font>

{{{
// E.g. if my_relation contains post ID 123, and post ID 123 has been deleted
print_custom_field('my_relation:to_link'); 
// Prints out "Referenced post not found."
}}}

== Example 3 (invalid input) ==

Just to be abundantly clear: this filter is meant to operate on _integer post IDs_.  If your field does not contain a post ID, then do not use this filter.  <font color="red">Do not pass it full URLs!</font>

*Error Message:* <font color="red">Invalid input. to_link operates on post IDs only.</font>

{{{
// E.g. if my_text contains a URL like http://google.com/ then the function will choke:
print_custom_field('my_text:to_link'); 
// Prints out "Invalid input. to_link operates on post IDs only."
}}}

Don't despair: it's a trivial task to print out your text field and treat it like a URL.  It's just basic HTML, e.g.

{{{
<a href="<?php print_custom_field('my_url:raw'); ?>">Click Here!</a>
}}}

= See Also =

[to_link_OutputFilter to_link_href] Output Filter