#summary to_link_href Output Filter
#labels Output-Filters,Function-Reference
#sidebar SidebarOutputFilters

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Description =

The *to_link_href* converts a post ID to the full link to that post (the link's [http://www.w3schools.com/tags/att_a_href.asp href] attribute).  <font color="red">Do not use this filter on URLs! It operates on integers only!</font>


= Usage =

Generic invocation of any Output Filter occurs via the [TemplateFunctions#get_custom_field get_custom_field()] function:

_mixed_ *get_custom_field*( string _$input_ `[`, mixed _$options_ `]` ) 

 * *$input*: _string_.  an integer post ID
 * *$options*: _string_. Default value to return if no post ID is specified. 
 * *OUTPUT*: _string_. The URL for the referenced post.

= Options =

Supply a default value if there is no post ID supplied.  You can use this to supply a default href.

= Examples =

== Example 1==

Gets the full URL to the referenced post.

{{{
<a href="<?php print_custom_field('my_relation:to_link_href'); ?>">Click here!</a>
}}}

== Example 2 ==

You can use any output filter in the [CCTM_filter CCTM::filter()] function.  This should show clearly that this filter operates _only_ on integers.  In this example, 345 is the post ID of the post we're linking to:

{{{
<a href="<?php print CCTM::filter(345, 'to_link_href'); ?>">Click here!</a>
}}}


== Example 3 (missing posts) ==

If you are trying to link to a post that has been deleted, an error message will be returned.  This might also occur if you have migrated sites and your custom field is pointing to a post that does not exist in the new database.

*Error Message:* <font color="red">Referenced post not found.</font>

{{{
// E.g. if my_relation contains post ID 123, and post ID 123 has been deleted
<a href="<?php print_custom_field('my_relation:to_link_href'); ?>">Click Here</a>
// Prints out "Referenced post not found."
}}}

== Example 4 (invalid input) ==

Just to be abundantly clear: this filter is meant to operate on _integer post IDs_.  If your field does not contain a post ID, then do not use this filter.  <font color="red">Do not pass it full URLs!</font>

*Error Message:* <font color="red">Invalid input. to_link_href operates on post IDs only.</font>

{{{
// E.g. if my_text contains a URL like http://google.com/ then the function will choke:
print_custom_field('my_text:to_link'); 
// Prints out "Invalid input. to_link_href operates on post IDs only."
}}}

Don't despair: it's a trivial task to print out your text field and treat it like a URL.  It's just basic HTML, e.g.

{{{
<a href="<?php print_custom_field('my_url:raw'); ?>">Click Here!</a>
}}}

= See Also =

[to_link_OutputFilter to_link] Output Filter