#summary wrapper Output Filter
#labels Output-Filters,Function-Reference
#sidebar SidebarOutputFilters

<wiki:toc max_depth="1" />

= Description =

The *wrapper* filter will wrap non-empty input. This allows you add extra markup to non-empty values and let empty values pass through. Pass this filter either a formatting string that uses the `[+content+]`; placeholder, or supply a 2 element array that specifies text that will appear before and after the input text.  See the examples below.

= Usage =

Generic invocation of any Output Filter occurs via the [TemplateFunctions#get_custom_field get_custom_field()] function:

_mixed_ *get_custom_field*( string _$input_ `[`, mixed _$options_ `]` ) 

 * *$input*: _string_ a post ID  
 * *$options*: _mixed_. You can supply either a formatting string or a 2 element array.
 * *OUTPUT*: _string_. Full path to the image

= Options =

 * *string*: Supply a formatting string that contains the `[+content+]` placeholder, e.g.

 `<span class="my_class"><strong>Fax:</strong> [+content+]</span>`

 * *array*: If you supply an array, the first element in the array will be placed _before_ the content, the 2nd element in the array will be placed _after_ the content, e.g.

 `array('<span class="my_class"><strong>Fax:</strong> ', '</span>')`

== Example 1==

If your custom field is empty, the wrapper filter will not append anything to the output.  Imagine the following page that lists contact information:

{{{ 
<?php
print_custom_field('phone_number:wrapper', array('<span class="my_class"><strong>Phone:</strong> ', '</span>') );

print_custom_field('fax_number:wrapper', array('<span class="my_class"><strong>Fax:</strong> ', '</span>') );
?>
}}}

If the record being formatted has a phone number, but no fax number, the generated output might be something like this:

{{{
<span class="my_class"><strong>Phone:</strong>800-555-1212</span>
}}}

The *phone_number* was wrapped because it had a value, but the the *fax_number* was _not_ wrapped because it was empty.

== Example 2==

You can also use a formatting string to format the output.  Simply ensure that your string contains the  `[+content+]` placeholder to designate where the input value will appear in the output:

{{{
print_custom_field('fax_number:wrapper', '<span class="my_class"><strong>Fax:</strong> [+content+]</span>') );
?>
}}}

= See Also =